Team:Logistics/Warehouse
SHA2017

Operation Plan


Introduction
    Team Goals
        As a subteam under the Logistics team, team Warehouse will provide
        a small scale on-site storage facility, pre-stocked with items that
        we expect to come in handy. We support other teams by providing them
        with goods, that their volunteers can pick up at our warehouse. If
        capacity allows, we can also deliver these items to volunteers in the
        field, to minimize the interruption. We will also coordinate shopping
        runs for items that are not yet available, but dearly needed.

        A part of the warehouse will be made available for teams with storage
        requirements that cannot be met by tents. Specifically for the rest of
        team Logistics, we will provide a Headquarters (LHQ), from which the
        subteams can coordinate their activities.

    Brief History
        At WTH2005, no preparations were done for a warehouse. During
        build-up, a makeshift warehouse was erected at the attic of a building
        that happened to be available. Pre-event shopping was limited to a box
        of office supplies; essential equipment like tie-wraps and duct tape
        were missing. During build-up, the warehouse was completely self-service
        without any supervision, and it was hard to keep it stocked as we had
        already bought all the duct tape in a 25 km radius. Still though, it
        proved to be a valuable addition to the way the event was built up and
        centralized shopping made sharing of goods easier.

        At HAR2009, the warehouse, now part of team Logistics and named
        Logistics HeadQuarters (LHQ), was prepared in a somewhat more organized
        fashion. However, as a result of opposing views between Logistics and
        the core organization, the warehouse had no housing that was available
        from early build-up until late tear-down, and was moved a total of four
        times. Some of the LHQs were tents, causing boxes to get damp and
        collapse, and metal parts to rust. Despite the energy wasted with
        moving, and things getting lost and broken in the process, we now had a
        warehouse with some supervision, resulting in a much better service
        towards the other teams.

        With OHM2013, LHQ had evolved to a temporary building comprised of
        modular container units. It had shelving and a place to sit down and
        organize the rest of Logistics operations. The more climate proof boxes
        could be locked, and as such became a somewhat more secure storage
        facility. There was enough space to adapt to changing circumstances,
        and its central positioning relative to the rest of the orga field made
        it well-known to all active volunteers. A simple tracking system was
        set up using a spreadsheet.

        For SHA2017, we intend to repeat the success of Logistics at OHM2013.
        We hope to improve upon it, by inviting shift angels to assist us. This
        should allow the LHQ staff to have some time to enjoy the event more,
        and hopefully even allow for sufficient capacity to implement delivery
        to the hard working teams on the rest of the terrain.

Responsibilities

    The subteam has dedicated volunteers, and shift angels. The dedicated
    volunteers who are part of the larger Orga and have been preparing the
    subteam for months in advance of the event, are the Team Leads. Other
    dedicated volunteers have pledged to work at LHQ on site from build-up
    to teardown, or a part of that time frame.

    LHQ is staffed by its dedicated volunteers, assisted by shift angels who do
    2-hour shifts and are not generally available outside the scope of those
    shifts.

    ↓ Tasks / Roles →               Desk    Runner  LHQ-Staff   TeamLead
    Pre-event preparations                                      X
    Hard decisions                                              X
    Opening and closing LHQ                         X           X
    Training angels                                 X           X
    Sourcing of inventory                           X           X
    Delivery and pick-up                    X       X           *
    Inventory tracking              X       X       X           X
    Answering the phone/radio       X       *       *           *
    Validating driving licenses     *               X           X
    Authorizing vehicle use         bikes           X           X [1]
    Cleaning and improving LHQ      X       X       X           X

    X = Primary actor
    * = Secondary actor, in case the primary actor is not available

    [1] Large vehicles are governed by their respective subteams, i.e.
    Shuttles, Off-Site, and On-Site.

Procedures

    Lending items
        Special case: manitous, field forklifts (keys)
            The answer is a friendly 'no'.

            Only our own team members in the On-Site subteam will drive these.

        Special case: other motor vehicle (keys)
            For insurance reasons, only registered and approved drivers may
            use motorized vehicles. This DOES apply to on-site off-road
            vehicles like golf carts!

            Registered drivers are given a wristband for easy identification.

            Drivers must be sober.

            Expected usage under 20 minutes: check if the vehicle's time table
            is clear for at least 20 + 10 = 30 minutes.

            Expected usage over 20 minutes: request approval from the TeamLead.
            Note that Shuttles, On-site vehicles and Off-site vehicles, each
            have their own subteam.

            Proceed with the 'general case' procedure.

        Special case: radios, batteries
            Radio batteries can be exchanged, but not handed out individually.

            Most radios are reserved for specific teams. Check with the
            schedule provided by subteam ROC (Radio Operation Center) to see if
            they can get a radio.

            Scan the radio barcode before inserting the battery.

            Proceed with the 'general case' procedure.

        Special case: items not in inventory
            When an item is requested that we don't have, we might still
            be able to help out.

            Ask what the item is needed for; maybe we have something else that
            can be used instead. For example, gaffer tape with permanent marker
            could be an alternative for a label printer; rope could be an
            alternative for tiewraps, or vice versa. Be creative.

            If the item is necessary, but not available, ask if it should be
            bought. In case it needs buying, write down as much information as
            you can get about the volunteer, the product, and what it's needed
            for. We need a way to inform them when we have it. It may take a
            day for us to buy it. If it's urgent, contact a team lead by
            radio.

            Don't make any promises. Buying things costs money and budgets are
            limited.

        General case
            Only lend out to registered organizers and volunteers. They will
            have a volunteer badge with a barcode, or an LHQ pass with a
            barcode. If they don't have this, refer them to the Volunteer tent
            for registration.

            Specifically, we do NOT lend out items directly to villages and
            visitors! They can try and ask an angel to accompany them with the
            item, who will then also take care of returning the item.

            Scan the item(s) first, then scan the lender's barcode.

            Always ask the volunteer to return the items after use. If it's a
            consumable item, like a bag of tie-wraps, or a roll of duct-tape,
            we'd still like to know if it's used up, and for that we still need
            the barcode!

    Orders by phone or radio
        Typically, the same procedure as for lending items via our front desk.
        If a mobile scanner is available, you can scan the volunteer's barcode
        at the delivery location. However, if a mobile scanner is not
        available: ask their name and scan at LHQ before leaving.

        The option to perform deliveries may not be available all the time. It
        depends on the availability of a runner volunteer, as the desk
        volunteer can't easily leave.

    Accepting returned items
        Thank the volunteer for returning the stuff. Detach batteries and charge
        them. Scan the barcode and scan or type the "info" command to look up
        the previous location in the warehouse. Store it at the same location
        where it was before. Charge the batteries.

    Validating driving license
        Drivers need to be authorized by LHQ before they are allowed to take a
        vehicle. Authorized drivers get a INSERT COLOR HERE wristband so that
        they don't have to repeat the process.

        1. Ask the driving angel to bring their license.
        2. Verify the license
            - photo matches face. Not sure? Escalate to team lead!
            - driver is at least 18 years old (birth date is before 1999-07-28).
            - license not expired during SHA (expiry date is after 2017-08-10).
            - license must be in latin script (no cyrillic, greek, chinese, etc)
        3. Scan the angel badge
        4. Scan or type the command "edit-metadata". At the "groups>" prompt,
           add "driver". (Separate groups with spaces.)
        5. Give the driver a INSERT COLOR HERE wristband and clamp it.

    Storage of equipment
        Some shelves and some floor space are allocated for other teams.
        Things from those locations must not be taken by others.

    Emergencies
        In case of real emergencies, drop the bureaucracy. Our rules don't
        matter if someone's life is at stake.

        However, as long as it's safe to do so, remain at the warehouse.

    Other (idle time)
        Idle time can be used to charge batteries, sweep the floor, tidy the
        shelves, play minesweeper, watch presentations via streams, etc.

        Check the golf carts and bicycles for defects and soft tyres.

        If you like, you can use our resources to help teams and villages
        along, for example by looking up device specifications, calling
        suppliers, printing and laminating signs, etc. Maybe Infodesk has some
        desk jobs that they'd like to hand over. However, don't make any
        promises; you still have to be stand-by for our primary duties.

Physical resources

    LHQ and the warehouse
    Inventory
    Inventory tracking system
    Vehicles

Temporal planning

    Daily schedule
        - 10:00 LHQ opens
        - 21:30 Radio broadcast: please return your stuff in 30 minutes, last
                chance for full radio batteries
        - 22:00 LHQ closes for lending new stuff, not yet for returns
        - 22:00 clean up of LHQ: get rid of garbage, sweep floor, tidy desks
        - 22:15 LHQ closes for returns
        - Available outside opening times for EMERGENCIES ONLY

    Day-by-day schedule

        - Wed Jul 26 (-8): Boels delivers LHQ units
        - Thu Jul 27 (-7) mor: Schalkoort delivers shelves
        - Thu Jul 27 (-7): OK Gas delivers 36 propane cannisters
        - Thu Jul 27 (-7): (Off-Site) Pick up LHQ stuff from RevSpace
        - Thu Jul 27 (-7) eve: Discuss shopping constraints with Attilla
        - Fri Jul 28 (-6): Making LHQ fully functional
        - Sat Jul 29 (-5): Build-up phase 2 starts
        - Tue Aug 2 (-3): Juerd goes home for 1 day
        - Wed Aug 3 (-2): Juerd returns
        - Wed Aug 2 (-1): Practice saying "no" to villages :)
        - Tue Aug 4 (event 1): LHQ should be able to run on angel power now
        - Tue Aug 8 (event 4, td 0): Prepare for tear-down: MAKE ROOM
        - Thu Aug 9 (td 2) eve: Reduce LHQ to bare minimum, everything in boxes
        - Thu Aug 10 (td 3): OK Gas picks up propane cannisters
        - Thu Aug 10 (td 3) aft: Schalkoort picks up shelves
        - Fri Aug 11 (td 4) mor: Bring lots of stuff to RevSpace
        - Fri Aug 11 (td 4): Boels picks up LHQ units
        - Fri Aug 11 (td 4): LAST DAY OF TEAR DOWN

    Preparations

        - Write this Operation Plan
        - Write the software for inventory tracking
        - Source hardware, required for inventory tracking
        - Inquire about storage requirements from other teams
        - Coordinate with subteam Pre-Event-Shopping
        - Coordinate with team Volunteers about barcodes

